Name: Connor Link
Course: AI Powered Bionformatics (BMMB 852: Applied Bioinformatics)
Homework 4

# QUESTIONS:

Using the data resource of your choice, download a genome and corresponding annotation files for an organism of your choice. (You might want to select a simpler/smaller genome to make data load faster and have a simpler GFF file)

- Use IGV to visualize your genome and the annotations relative to the genome.
- From your GFF file separate intervals of type "gene" into a different file. If you don't have genes, pick another feature.
- Load up the simplified GFF file into IGV as a separate track.
- Zoom in to see the sequences, line up CDS (coding sequences) with the translation table in IGV
- Verify that coding sequences start with a start codon and end with a stop codon.
- Manually generate a simple GFF file that can be visualized in your genome.
- Load your manually generated GFF file as a separate track in IGV.




# ANSWERS/FINDINGS:

## Database and Dataset
The database used was the NCBI Datasets database, with the organism of Drosophila malangaster (ID=7227) and a RefSeq of GCF_000001215.4.

## Lining up the Coding sequences (CDS)
Upon visual inspection of the isolated CDS data with the translation table, all visualized regions lined up with possible start and stop codons. This was true both with forward and reverse strands.

## Creation of example GFF file
I created the following GFF file:
NC_004354.4	.	gene	545610	546010	.	+	1	ID=gene01
NC_004354.4	.	exon	545610	545789	.	+	.	ID=exon01;Parent=gene01
NC_004354.4	.	CDS	545990	546010	.	+	0	ID=cds01;Parent=gene01

Through the use of parent-child relationships in the attributes (column 9), they were all connected. Additionally, the third line was for a CDS, and through using the proper Phase (column 8) I was able to align the displayed amino acids with the translation table.



# COMMAND LINE CODE:
A chronological order of the code written in Unix during this assignment. Also included comments discussing why the code was used and any interesting features.

## Summary of the dataset: Used to visualize a summary of the genome before downloading
datasets summary genome accession GCF_000001215.4 | jq

## Download the genome (FASTA) and GFF3 file for the organism
datasets download genome accession GCF_000001215.4 --include genome,gff3,gtf,rna,protein,cds

## Unzip the resulting zip file, and then remove that zip file. Then go into the directory where the data exists
unzip ncbi_dataset.zip
rm ncbi_dataset.zip
cd ncbi_dataset/data/GCF_000001215.4

## Build an index for the genome
samtools faidx GCF_000001215.4_Release_6_plus_ISO1_MT_genomic.fna

## Create a simplified GFF file that only includes the Genes. Additionally, create a new file that houses the CDS regions.
cat genomic.gff | cut -f 3 | sort-uniq-count-rank | head
cat genomic.gff | awk '$3 == "gene"' | head -1
cat genomic.gff | awk '$3 == "gene"' > GCF_000001215.4_Genes.gff
cat genomic.gff | awk '$3 == "CDS"' > GCF_000001215.4_CDS.gff








